| **Policy Name**       | Data Retention and Deletion Policy |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| **Responsible Party** | David Trost                        |
| **Contact**           | [privacy@compto.com][0]            |
| **Status**            | Under Review                       |
| **Effective Date**    |                                    |
| **Revision Date**     | February 2025                      |

# Compto Public Benefit Corporation Data Retention and Deletion Policy: Compliance and Supervisory Procedures

## 1. Introduction

By adhering to this **Data Retention and Deletion Policy**, the
organization ensures compliance with U.S. anti-money-laundering
regulations and consumer privacy laws, safeguards individual privacy
rights, and mitigates the risks associated with excessive data storage.
This policy aligns our operational practices with the principle of
collecting and retaining only what is necessary, for only as long as it
is needed, and then securely deleting it when obligations or business
needs no longer apply.

## 2. Purpose and Scope

This policy establishes the standards and procedures for:

1.  Retaining data in compliance with applicable legal and regulatory
    requirements (e.g., anti-money-laundering laws).

2.  Ensuring individuals' privacy rights are respected (e.g., under
    consumer privacy laws such as the California Consumer Privacy Act
    \[CCPA\] or similar state laws).

3.  Defining the process for securely deleting data when retention
    periods expire or when lawful deletion requests are validated.

### Scope:

-   Applies to all personal and customer data the company collects,
    stores, or processes, including information such as user identities,
    addresses, social security numbers (SSNs), email addresses, phone
    numbers, usage statistics, transaction records, and app logging
    data.

-   Covers data stored in any form, including electronic databases,
    cloud services, backups, and physical records (if applicable).

## 3. Definitions

-   **Personal Data:** Any information related to an identified or
    identifiable individual, such as name, address, SSN, email, phone
    number, usage stats, or transaction details.

-   **Retention Period:** The duration for which data must be kept to
    meet legal, regulatory, or operational obligations.

-   **Deletion (or Destruction):** The process of permanently rendering
    data unreadable and irretrievable (e.g., secure erasure for
    electronic files, shredding for physical records).

-   **AML Data:** Data subject to anti-money-laundering regulations,
    which typically include customer identification details, transaction
    records, and supporting documentation.

-   **Data Subject:** An individual whose personal data is being
    processed (e.g., a customer or end-user).

## 4. Compliance with Relevant Laws and Regulations

1.  **Anti-Money-Laundering Laws**: U.S. AML regulations generally
    require certain financial records (including personally identifiable
    information like addresses, SSNs, and transaction details) to be
    retained for a minimum of **five (5) years** from the date of the
    transaction or account closure.

2.  **Consumer Privacy Laws**: Various U.S. state privacy laws (e.g.,
    CCPA) emphasize data minimization, transparency, and the right to
    request deletion under certain conditions. Organizations must not
    retain personal data for longer than it is reasonably necessary for
    disclosed business purposes.

3.  **Other Possible State and Federal Requirements**: Laws vary by
    state and sector. Depending on your industry or location, you may
    also need to comply with:

    -   **Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA)** if handling financial data.

    -   **State-Specific Data Protection Laws** (e.g., Virginia,
        Colorado, Connecticut), which mirror or expand upon CCPA.

**Note:** The exact retention timeline for non-AML data may vary based
on the business's operational needs and the sensitivity of the data.
However, any retention must align with a lawful purpose, and data should
be deleted or anonymized once no longer needed.

## 5. Data Classification

To properly enforce retention and deletion, data is classified into
categories:

1.  **AML-Critical Data**: Personal information (like name, address,
    SSN) and transaction logs subject to mandatory 5-year retention
    under AML/BSA (Bank Secrecy Act) regulations.

2.  **User Account Data (Non-AML)**: Contact details (email, phone) and
    basic profile information stored in the user's account.

3.  **Transactional and Usage Data**: App usage statistics, purchase
    history, and other logs used to improve services or troubleshoot
    issues but not tied to AML compliance requirements.

4.  **Marketing Data**: Communication preferences, email addresses for
    newsletters, and similar data (retention guided by user consent and
    the principle of data minimization).

## 6. Retention Schedules

The following general retention periods apply, unless superseded by
stricter legal requirements:

### AML-Critical Data:

Minimum **5 years** from the date of the final transaction or the
closure of the account (whichever is later). This includes any
information needed to verify the customer's identity and all transaction
records that could be relevant for AML reviews.

### User Account Data (Non-AML):

Retained for as long as the individual maintains an active account, plus
a **1-year grace period** post-account closure to handle disputes or
regulatory inquiries. If no regulatory or contractual obligations
remain, the data is deleted or anonymized after that period.

### Transactional and Usage Data (Non-AML)

Retained for operational and analytical use (e.g., product improvement)
for up to **2 years**, unless there is a continued legitimate business
or legal requirement. Aggregated or anonymized data may be retained
indefinitely, provided it cannot be linked back to an individual.

### Marketing Data:

Retained until the individual opts out or withdraws consent, or until it
is no longer relevant for marketing purposes (usually **2 years** from
last interaction).

## 7. Data Deletion Process

### Scheduled Deletions:

Systems and databases must have automated or manual procedures to
identify records that have reached their end-of-retention date. When a
record is flagged, it is securely erased from active systems, and, if
applicable, also removed from backups following the backup retention
schedule.

### User-Initiated Deletion Requests:

Under certain privacy laws (e.g., CCPA), individuals can request that
their personal data be deleted. Upon receiving a valid, verified
request, the company will remove the user's personal data unless a
specific legal exemption applies (e.g., AML retention requirements, or
other legal or regulatory obligations).

### Secure Destruction of Physical Records (if any):

Paper documents containing personal or AML-critical data must be
shredded or destroyed beyond legibility once they reach the end of their
retention period.

### Deletion of Backups:

Backup media may store data past the primary system retention date. The
organization ensures backups are governed by similar retention
timelines, meaning data is overwritten or securely destroyed upon final
expiration.

## 8. Exceptions and Holds

### Legal Holds:

If ongoing litigation or a regulatory investigation requires certain
data to be preserved beyond the standard retention period, that data
must not be destroyed until the hold is lifted by legal counsel or
relevant authorities.

### Extension of Retention for Specific Use Cases:

In rare circumstances, the CSO or Legal Counsel may authorize data to be
retained longer than standard policy if a pressing business or
compliance requirement exists. Such extensions must be documented, with
a rationale and an updated deletion date.

## 9. Enforcement and Responsibilities

### Policy Ownership:

The CSO (or the designated data protection officer) is responsible for
ensuring compliance with this policy, conducting periodic reviews, and
updating retention schedules based on new regulations or business needs.

### Department/Team Accountability (if applicable):

Each department or system owner must ensure systems are configured to
meet the designated retention and deletion requirements.

### Training and Awareness:

All employees handling user data must be trained on proper data
retention, deletion protocols, and how to handle user requests for
removal.

## 10. Auditing and Monitoring

### Periodic Audits:

The organization conducts regular internal audits (at least annually) to
confirm compliance with retention periods, verify that deletion
processes are followed, and validate that no unauthorized data sets
exist.

### Documentation:

All records of data purges, user deletion requests, and legal hold
directives are logged and maintained to demonstrate compliance.

## 11. Review and Revisions

### Review Cycle:

This policy is reviewed at least once per year or whenever there are
substantial changes in applicable laws (e.g., new state privacy
regulations).

### Version Control:

Each revision is documented, with details on the nature of changes and
the date they come into effect.

### List of Revisions

| **Revision** | **Revision Date** | **Effective Date** | **Description of Changes**                    | **Approved By** |
| ------------ | ----------------- | ------------------ | --------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| v1.0         | January 2025      | January 2025       | Initial Release                               | David Trost     |
| v1.1         | February 2025     |                    | - Switch to md - add revisions - fix approval |                 |

## 12. Senior Manager Approval

I have approved this Data Retention Policy as reasonably designed to
achieve and monitor our firm's ongoing compliance with the requirements
of data retention standards and regulations.

> Signed:  
> Name:  
> Title:  
> Date:

[0]: mailto:privacy@compto.com "mailto:privacy@compto.com"
